+-------+
| Story |
+-------+

While exploring the Universe, mankind has found the planet, code-named
"FMM UV-32". Further surface and inhabitant exploration has disclosed that
it was 50 millions years younger than Earth and was populated with
prehistoric reptiles. A hunting company was established, giving customers
a unique chance to become a dinosaur hunter.

You, the hunter, become a client of this company, and receive authorization
to hunt for dinosaurs. You will receive besides a variety of weapons and
ammunition recommended for a hunt.

+---------------------+
| System Requirements |
+---------------------+

Pentium 200+ Processor (Pentium II Processor recomended)
Windows 95 or Compatible operating system
32 MB RAM
85 MB of free Hard Disk space
Mouse requred
CD-ROM Drive
DirectX Compatible Video Card (3DFX Voodoo or Voodoo2 Card recomended)
DirectX Compatible Sound Card

+--------------+
| Installation |
+--------------+

Simply put your Carnivores CD into your CD-ROM drive and the Carnivores
Launcher will automatically start. You just have to follow the directions
on your screen.

If you have Autorun disabled, click on the START button, then RUN. At the
run line type in D:\SETUP and then click OK or press ENTER. If your CD-ROM
drive is something other than 'D' substitute the correct letter. Then follow
the directions on your screen.

+------------------------+
| Preparing for the hunt |
+------------------------+

When you start the game you'll see a registration screen where you have
to register yourself as a new hunter. If you have passed the registration
before you'll see your name in a list below. Simply click on it and press
OK. If you register yourself as a new hunter you'll see a DinoHunt Corp.
waiver:

The risks that I may face while hunting on DinoHunt Corp. property have
been fully explained to me, and I understand that all risks are mine alone,
as DinoHunt Corp. holds no control over the animals on their property.
In the event of harm including death or dismemberment incurred while
visiting DinoHunt Corp. property, I fully release DinoHunt Corp. from any
responsibility, financially or otherwise, and hold only myself accountable.

You are free to accept or decline it.

After you accept the terms of waiver, you'll see the main menu screen.
Choose NEW to start the new hunt.

Now you can choose the hunting location and dinosaur you want to hunt.
It gives you some useful information about each dinosaur and locations.
Also here you can toggle observer mode, which gives you opportunity to
watch dinosaurs in their natural habitat.

Hunting Locations
=================

There are six different hunting areas available in the game. Three of them
are available for you to play even if you have a rank of beginner. Other
become available as your rank is bumped up.

Area 1 : The Wood of Turan Choks
Minimal rank   : novice

This island was the first that our astronauts discovered on the surface of
a new planet. It is called after Turan Choks, the captain of the spaceship
which discovered it. While exploring this area people found that its wood
is highly populated by various dinosaurs species. Now this island is fully
explored and is a very suitable place for obtaining elementary hunting
experience.

Area 2 : Basmachee Rocks
Minimal rank   : novice

The relief of this area seems very strange and different from the first
sight. You can find either lakes and green hills or mountains and deserts.
Some of the mountains have a very strange shape, so it is hard to say
precisely what was their origin. However this island is a very intersting
place to see and to discover.

Area 3 : Jungles of Gravitsappa
Minimal rank   : novice

This island is covered by tropical jungles and is a very suitable place
for most of dinosaurs to live. There are some cracks filled with lava
in the south-eastern part of the island. Maybe they appeared due to some
seismical processes that took place in the past. But now this place is
safe for hunting and no earthquakes are expected.

Area 4 : The Ancient Temple
Minimal rank   : advanced

There is a small temple situated in the middle of this island. It is
surrounded by the pit of lava from all sides and only a ruined bridge
leads inside it. Archeologists discovered that the temple was an ancient
sacrificial place. The hieroglyphs written on the temple walls tell us,
that after each sacrifice, demons came from the heart of the wood to have
a feast of flesh and blood. They were as fast as the wind and had teeth
sharper than blade.

Area 5 : Pyramids of Shmu-Hadron
Minimal rank   : advanced

This area is famous for the ruins of the pyramids located deep in its
deserts. It is still unknown, whether that was an alien civilization or
a tribe from within the planet, who has built those pyramids. Our
scientists have decrypted some of the manuscripts, that belong to this
civilization. They reveal that civilization from FMM UV-32 worshiped
Elder God Shmu-Hadron, which means 'Great Lizard'. However nothing is
known about a mysterious death of this civilization.

Area 6 : The Great Lake
Minimal rank   : expert

This location is surrounded by a wall of impassable mountains from all
sides. There is a big lake in the center of it. It is considered that
this lake was formed after a giant meteor falled onto the ground unleashing
the underground waters and making the soil of this island unsuitable
for most of vegetation.

Dinosaurs
=========

When choosing the target dinosaur, keep in mind that except this kind of
dinosaurs there are always some other species on the area, both herbivores
and carnivores. If you will shoot the dinosaur different from the one you
have chosen, you'll receive only half the points that it worth. While
choosing dinosaur you can view their target zones. Also not all creatures
are available from the very beginning. Just like some territories certain
dinosaurs become available as soon as you reach certain rank as a hunter.

Herbivorous dinosaurs:
----------------------

Name     : Parasaurolophus
Size     : length 5-8 meters
Weight   : up to  3 tons
Diet     : plants
Points   : 6
Minimal
rank     : novice

Parasaurolophus ("beside Saurolophus") is a duckbill dinosaur with a very
striking head crest. Projecting backward from its skull, the crest is a
hollow tube up to 1.8 m (6 ft) long. A skull with a much shorter crest is
originally thought to belong to a separate species, but paleontologists
(scientists who study fossils) now believe it represents a female
Parasaurolophus. Nasal passages run in pairs from the nostrils up to the
crest tip and then back down to the snout.

Name     : Stegosaurus
Size     : length 8.5 meters
Weight   : up to  6 tons
Diet     : plants
Points   : 7
Minimal
rank     : novice

Stegosaurus ("roof lizard") gets its name from the big bony plates that
jutt upward from its neck, back, and upper tail. Until recently, scientists
were unsure how its plates are arranged. Some believe that they were paired.
Others thought that they alternated. A third group put them in one row, with
big plates overlapping. But species discovered on the surface of FMM UV-32
proved that the plates formed two staggered rows. A bony plate probably
protected each hip, and two pairs of spikes stuck out sideways from the end
of the tail. As heavy as a big rhinoceros and about the length of a bus,
Stegosaurus is the largest known plated dinosaur. It stood more than room-high
at the hips and walked on elephantine limbs. Its small head was held low and
ended in a toothless, horn-covered beak. Behind the beak were numerous teeth.
It is not known if the tail droops or is held aloft.
Note: Stegosaurus has the only target area in his left side around his heart.

Name     : Pachycephallosaurus
Size     : length 4-6 meters
Weight   : up to  1.5 tons
Diet     : plants
Points   : 8
Minimal
rank     : novice

The largest of the bone-headed dinosaurs is Pachycephalosaurus ("thick-headed
lizard"). This bipedal (two-legged) plant-eater's brain is cushioned inside
a domed braincase up to 25 cm (10 in) thick. Bony knobs edge the dome's rear
rim, and short spikes projected upward from the snout. The teeth are tiny.
Pachycephalosaurus is the length of a large car, with a fairly short, thick
neck, short arms, a bulky body, long legs, and a heavy tail held rigid by a
basketwork of hard, bony tendons.

Name     : Triceratops
Size     : length 6-8 meters
Weight   : up to  4 tons
Diet     : fibrous plants
Points   : 9
Minimal
rank     : advanced

Triceratops ("three-horned face") proved to be the largest-known ceratopsian
("horned-faced" dinosaur). It is as heavy as an elephant, with a massive
body, and its head is about 1.8 m (6 ft) long. A broad, bony frill sticks out
from the back of its deep-beaked skull, it has a short nose horn, and two
long, hollow-based brow horns jutted above its eyes.
Note: Triceratops has the only target area in his left side around his heart.

Carnivorous dinosaurs:
----------------------

Name     : Allosaurus
Size     : length 4-6 meters
Weight   : up to  2 tons
Diet     : herbivorous dinosaurs
Points   : 12
Minimal
rank     : novice

Allosaurus ("other lizard") is one of the biggest carnivorous (flesh-eating)
dinosaurs before the tyrannosaurids (dinosaurs like Tyrannosaurus).
Allosaurus' long, muscular hindlimbs support a body nearly as heavy as an
elephant's. The huge but lightweight skull consists largely of bony struts,
with bony ridges above the eyes. The immense, expandable jaws had long,
curved, saw-edged teeth. A thick, S-curved neck supports the head, and a
long, deep tail counterbalance the heavy front end of this terrifying
theropod ("beast-footed" dinosaur). Curved, tapering claws arm the three
fingers of each short, strong arm. Each foot has three claw-bearing toes;
the short first toe turns slightly backward. If it feels you on the long
distance it may try to avoid meeting you. However, if you meet him close
enough it will surely attack you. Extermely dangerous!

Name     : Velociraptor
Size     : length 3-5 meters
Weight   : up to  1.5 tons
Diet     : large dinosaurs
Points   : 14
Minimal
rank     : advanced

Velociraptor ("quick plunderer") is a ferocious, carnivorous (flesh-eating)
theropod ("beast-footed" dinosaur) with a relatively large brain, powerful
jaws, serrated teeth, and large fangs. It is a close relative of Deinonychus
and, like all members of the dromaeosaurid ("running lizard") family, it was
armed with a fearsome, retractable, sicklelike claw on its second toe. As
the legs possessed powerful muscles, this enormous claw would have been
Velociraptor's primary weapon, which it used to rake open its prey's belly.
Velociraptor can be distinguished from other family members by its very low
and narrow head. Velociraptor will attack you if he will notice you, and
never run away. Extremely dangerous!
Note: Velociraptor looks much like Galimimus.

Name     : Tyrannosaurus Rex
Size     : length 12-14 meters
Weight   : up to  6.5 tons
Diet     : everything that moves
Points   : 24
Minimal
rank     : expert

Tyrannosaurus ("tyrant lizard") is one of the last, largest, and most
powerful of all predatory dinosaurs. One of the biggest flesh-eating land
animals that ever lived, this two-legged theropod ("beast-footed" dinosaur)
grows as heavy as an elephant, as long as a tennis court is wide, and tall
enough to peer into an upstairs room. Saw-edged teeth arm the mighty jaws of
its immense head, 1.2 m (4 ft) long, and strong claws tip the main toes of
each gigantic foot. Compared to its massive legs, the small, two-fingered
hands and arms, no longer than our own, appear absurdly puny. Despite its
size, Tyrannosaurus is lightly constructed, with hollow bones and large
windows in the skull. Tyrranosaurus will never run away from his prey.
The only way to kill this monster is to shoot its eyes. Shooting any other
part of its body will just make it more agressive. A good choice for hunting
Tyrranosaurus is sniper rifle that gives you an ability to aim directly
on its eye.

After you have chosen location and dinosaur click Next button. You'll see
another menu screen where you will choose your hunting weapon and equipment.

Note: If you have switched observer mode on, clicking Next will bring you
      directly to the game. This mode is designed specially to allow you
      to observe the territories and their inhabitants, so there is no
      weapon available for you in this mode and dinosaurs will simply
      ignore your presence.

Weapons
=======
Weapons availability also depends upon the rank of player.

Shotgun
-------
7 shot magazine
Minimal
rank   : novice

The Shotgun will shoot at the center of the circle at the end of the
Shotgun barrel. This one is very powerfull, though very loud. So, aim
well before making a shot because after it all creatures will run away
in panic. Also they will be scared for a long time.

X-Bow
-----
7 shot magazine
Minimal
rank   : novice

The X-Bow will shoot at the aiming pins. The top pin is sighted in for
shooting at 40 meters and the bottom pin is sighted in for shooting at 80
meters. The main advantage of this kind of weapon is its silence, so you
can shoot several times not scaring the dinosaurs. But from other hand
it has a complex aiming system, therefore you'll need to practice to
shoot precise.

Sniper rifle
------------
7 shot magazine
Minimal
rank   : advanced

The Sniper rifle will shoot exactly where the scope cross hairs are placed.
This weapon gives you an opportunity to aim very precise but has one
disadvantage - it has very narrow view area.

Equipment
=========

Below is listed the additional equipment that is very helpfull during the
hunt especially for beginners. To choose the accessory you want to use
simply click on its icon and it will lighten up. However, keep in mind,
that using one or more equipment items decreases the score that you gain
during hunt by certain percentage. For example, if you used Radar and
killed Allosaurus you'll get only 8 points instead of 12.

Radar
-----
Radar gives you an opportunity to see dinosaurs that you have chosen from
menu on your Map. They appear as green points on it.
Points decrease - 30 percents

Cover scent
-----------
Use this accessory to mask human odour from dinosaurs. Using the cover scent
decreases the possibility of being noticed by them.
Points decrease - 20 percents

Camouflage
----------
Use a camouflaged suit to disguise during hunt. It will decrease the
probability of being noticed by dinosaurs.
Points decrease - 15 percents

Tranquilizer
------------
If don't want to kill a dinosaur you can use a tranquilizer instead of
normal bullets or arrows. This will just fall down the dinosaur but will
not kill him. Also using the tranquilizer will increase your point by
25 percents.

Also there are three equipment items which you take on every hunt and
which do not decrease your points. They are:

Binoculars
----------
Use them to see much farther then usually. Use + and - keys to zoom in
and out. If you aim your binoculars at the dinosaur you'll be given
an information about this particular dinosaur.

Map
---
Shows you the map of a hunting location. You can see your location on the
map as the red point. The green circle around you is your viewing distance.
If you use radar, you'll also be able to see dinosaurs on the map.

Dinosaur call
-------------
Use it properly to attract the dinosaurs, that you are hunting on.
Do not overuse it, because it may frighten herbivors from one hand and
attract predators from other.

When finished with weapon and equipment selection click START button to
begin the hunt.

+--------------------+
| Basics of gameplay |
+--------------------+

You start the game in one of the starting sites. In the bottom left of the
screen you'll see the Wind indicator, which shows the direction of the
wind as it changes. The arrow length indicates the strength of the wind.
To the right of it you can see the Compass, indicating the direction that
the hunter is facing. You can toggle these indicators using <Caps Lock> key.
Press <Tab> key to see the area map. Combining the indications of the
compass and the map you can guide yourself and choose the appropriate
movement direction.

Now try to use some of the accessories. Press <B> or your custom key to
raise/hide binoculars. Press <Alt> or your custom key to make a dinosaur
call. Now try to raise the weapon. In upper left corner of the screen
you'll see the number of ammo available for this particular weapon.
Do not waste your ammo for nothing because in this case you'll need to
restart the hunt. Take into account that you cannot run with the weapon
raised.

There are some dinosaurs roaming around you. You can shoot them but they
are not the goal of the game, so they will not add points to you and will
not be placed to the trophy area.

While exploring the hunting locations you may come across some lakes, rivers
or even lava pits. It is not recomended to stay under the water for a long
time or fall into lava, because it may cause player's death. However, when
you get there you'll see a bar in the upper right corner of the screen,
indicating your health.

Tracking the dinosaur
---------------------

If you want to succeed in the hunt you should remember some useful hints.

Attract the dinosaur you are hunting on using the dinosaur call in realistic
manner, so you don't scare the dinosaur off. But don't forget the fact, that
together with your target dinosaur there are also some other creatures
wandering around. Do not overuse the dinosaur call, for it may attract
predators if you are hunting herbivores.

Most of dinosaurs have an excellent sence of smell. If you are hunting
upwind from a dinosaur it will smell you and avoid walking in your direction.
Try to adjust your hunting location so you are always hunting downwind
from a dinosaur. Also cover scent is very useful in this case.

To avoid dinosaur from seeing you, hide behind trees, bushes and stones.
Using the camouflage and crouching will decrease the possibility of being
noticed by creatures.

Try not to run or jump if not necessary, because it makes a lot of noise
and may scare the herbivorous dinosaurs and attract predators.

If you haven't killed the dinosaur by the first shoot, it is less likely
that you'll hit it by next shoot, because it starts to run away from you
and you'll not be able to aim his mortal zones. Moreover you'll waste your
bullets for nothing. The idea is to trying to follow him. Maybe you'll be
lucky enough to find it again.

If you are not sure if the dinosaur you noticed is of right type, you should
better use binoculars, because some of the dinosaurs look similar
(e.g. deadly Velociraptor looks very similar to harmless Galimimus).

When you are under attack of some carnivore, it usually has no sence to
run away, because they are all much faster than you. It is better to try
to aim well and start shooting (don't take care about ammo in this case,
for it is the only chance to stay alive). Also it is not a good idea to
hide in the water, because they are good swimmers as well and your weapons
do not work under the water.

If you are out of ammo or you feel that the dinosaur will kill you for sure,
you can hit <Esc> to exit or restart the hunting location. However, you'll
have to wait for few seconds for retrieval ship to come.

When you finaly killed the dinosaur, the special retrieval ship will arrive
to take your trophy to the trophy area. Each killed dinosaur will add
certain points to your overall score. After your score hits 100 you'll
get the rank of Advanced hunter, and after 300 your rank will be Expert.
This will open some new dinosaurs, areas and weapons for your disposal.

+-----------+
| Main Menu |
+-----------+

STATUS BAR
----------

Status bar is situated in the top of main menu screen. It comprises three
sections, which show your name, rank (novice, advanced, expert) and current
score. Also there is a STATS button for more detailed information about
your hunting experience. It shows the following information:

Distance travelled - this value shows the distance travelled by you
Hunting time       - time spent during hunting
Shots made         - shows how many shots you have made
Succesfull shots   - how many of your shots hit the aim
Shot effectiveness - average effectiveness of your shots

Status screen shows the statistics both of last hunt and of your total
hunting experience.

OPTIONS
=======

Game options
------------
Here you can adjust some options that will influence the whole gaming
experience. They are:

Agressivity - defines how agressive are certain dinosaurs species. This
              value will take influence upon every carnivorous dinosaur
              and some herbivorous dinosaurs (Pachicephalosaurus,
              Triceratops)

Density     - defines the quantity of dinosaurs on each area

Sensitivity - defines how sensitive are dinosaurs to your presence (sight,
              scent, fear)

Video options
-------------
This section allows you to change some video issues.

Resolution - sets one of available screen resolutions. Setting lower
             resolutions usually increases game speed.
Fog        - switches volumetric fog on/off
             (Note: works only in 3DFX version of the game. Switching off
             volumetric fog will increase the game speed).
Textures   - allows you to change the quality of terrain/models textures
             available options are: low/high/auto. Setting texture quality
             to low will increase productivity if you are using a Voodoo/
             VoodooII video card with low memory. Setting texture quality
             to auto will automatically determine the available memory and
             dynamically change the quality of textures (recommended).
Shadows    - toggles realtime shadows on/off. Switching off realtime
             shadows will increase the game speed.

Controls
--------
Here you can customize your keyboard and mouse layout.

The default keyboard/mouse layout is below:

Forward             A
Backward            Z
Turn up             Up arrow
Turn down           Down arrow
Turn left           Left arrow
Turn right          Right arrow
Fire                Mouse1
Get weapon          Mouse2
Step left           ...
Step right          ...
Strafe              ...
Jump                Space
Run                 Shift
Crouch              X
Call                Alt
Binoculars          B
Reverse mouse       Off
Map                 Tab
Wind and Compass    Caps Lock

TROPHY
======

Clicking this option will bring you to the trophy area. There you can see
the dinosaurs that you have killed. The trophy area is divided onto 24
locations. Once killed your trophy is put into one of these locations.
If you move close enough in front of your trophy, in the bottom of the
screen you will see an information window, showing trophy statistics:

dinosaur name
weight
length
which weapon was used to kill dinosaur
points gained
date
time

To remove a particular trophy from trophy area hit R while information
window is on your screen. If you won't remove some trophy manually the
First-In-First-Out principle will be used. So if you wish to have only
some particular kind of trophy, you should remove the rest manually.

CREDITS
=======

Programming         : Oleg Slusar, Artem Kuryavchenko
Artwork             : Yaroslav Kravchenko, Alexey Serhiy
Environments design : Andrey Sharanevitch, Denis Vereschagin
Sound design        : Alexey Menshikov
BIZ                 : Igor Karev, Denis Vereschagin

QUIT
====

Exits to Windows operating system.

